Fox Article 21

Trump's presidential victory sparks protests and vigils across the U.S.

Protesters angry about Trump¡¯s stunning presidential election victory Tuesday are taking to the streets around the country Wednesday, with students walking out of colleges and high schools and anti-Trump peace vigils scheduled for this week and the days to follow. 

Berkeley High School students in California staged a walkout with their teachers.About 200 West Seattle High School students walked out of their classes Wednesday, chanting ¡°Save our future,¡± and ¡°Not my president,¡± as they marched through city streets holding a banner that read, ¡°Fight It.¡±At the University of California at Santa Barbara, students marched through campus chanting, "No more Trump! No more Trump!"

From California to Pennsylvania, Washington and Oregon, people demonstrated their unhappiness with the election results.

¡°We can¡¯t just sit back and let a racist and sexist become president,¡± Adam Braver, a 22-year-old political science student at the University of California, Berkeley, told the New York Times.

Daniel Colin, a graduate student in epidemiology and a naturalized American citizen from Guatemala, told the Times the election marked the first time he had voted in the United States.

¡°Now that I¡¯m finally expressing my vote, this happens,¡± he said. ¡°It¡¯s very sad.¡±

In New York, a chapter of the Socialist Alternative social justice group is planning a demonstration in Union Square on Wednesday evening, with 11,000 people who are expected. 

Religious organizations are offering gatherings to discuss Trump's win. 

The Auburn Seminary has assembled a post-election service in New York's Washington Square Park on Nov. 11, at which leaders of various faith groups will speak about the election ? they¡¯re calling it a multi-faith movement for justice.

Early Wednesday, Lady Gaga took a stand in front of Trump Tower in New York, tweeting a photo of herself holding a sign that read ¡°Love Trumps Hate,¡± along with the caption, ¡°I want to live in a #CountryOfKindness where #LoveTrumpsHate.¡±Students from Saint Peter¡¯s University, in Jersey City, New Jersey, announced in a press release that they are walking out of class on Thursday to demonstrate solidarity with ¡°all the marginalized communities who have been targeted by now president elect Donald Trump.¡±