Fox Article 18

World leaders welcome Trump presidential victory with mixed reactions

Donald Trump defied the polls and pundits until the very end, defeating Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton in Tuesday¡¯s presidential election.

His win comes as a ¡°wake-up call¡± to establishment politicians, as his win exposes the dissatisfaction with the way politicians have run things in the past.

Trump acknowledged during his acceptance speech early Wednesday morning saying America will ¡°get along with all other nations willing to get along with us.¡±

The world took notice to this historic election as well. Some responses were hopeful for foreign relations to continue smoothly.

Russian President Vladimir Putin congratulated Donald Trump on winning the U.S. presidential election. The Kremlin said in a brief statement that Putin expressed "his hope to work together for removing Russian-American relations from their crisis state."

Putin also said he has "confidence that building a constructive dialogue between Moscow and Washington that is based on principles of equality, mutual respect and a real accounting each other's positions, in the interests of our peoples and the world community."

Turkey's justice minister Bekiz Bozdag also commented on the election telling the state-run Anadolu Agency on Wednesday, "in essence our relations are relations between two states and we hope that under the new presidential term the Turkish-U.S. relations will be much better. That is our expectation."

A top Palestinian official acknowledged on Wednesday that he doesn¡¯t expect the U.S. positions to change on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict under Donald Trump.

Japan¡¯s Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga said, "We have been preparing so that we can respond to any situation because our stance is that our alliance with the U.S. remains to be the cornerstone of our diplomacy whoever becomes the next president."

During his speech on Wednesday morning, Trump had a message of hope saying he plans for America to ¡°deal fairly with everyone, all people, and all nations.¡±In his campaign he has caused a great deal of controversy with his plans to withdraw from the Trans-Pacific Partnership, bring trade cases against China and his plans to deport all criminal aliens out of the country.

While some comments of Trump¡¯s victory were positive, others were not as warm.

France¡¯s Socialist government openly endorsed Clinton. French Foreign Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault said France would work with the new president, but expressed concern saying, "We don't want a world where egoism triumphs.¡± Ayrault added, "There is a part of our electorate that feels ... abandoned," including people who feel "left behind" by globalization.¡±

Indonesians called to question Americans who voted for the billionaire on social media. Some people say that under a Trump administration they fear they'll be prevented from visiting relatives and friends who live in America or traveling there as tourists.

A couple of Chinese participants at a U.S. Embassy event in Beijing say they'd welcome a Trump presidency, while another says he thinks the Republican candidate projects a flawed image of the United States.

Speaking of Cuba's leaders, Communist Party member and noted economist and political scientist Esteban Morales told the Telesur network that "they must be worried because I think this represents a new chapter."

Carlos Alzugaray, a political scientist and retired Cuban diplomat, said a Trump victory could, however, please some hard-liners in the Cuban leadership who worried that Cuba was moving too close to the United States too quickly.

Many people joked threatening to leave the U.S. in the event of a Trump win, however Canada and the prospect of Americans moving there appears to have drawn so much online interest that it has knocked out the country's immigration website.

Searches for "move to Canada" and "immigrate to Canada" spiked Tuesday night as election returns favored Republican nominee Donald Trump. "Canada" was a leading U.S. trend on Twitter, with more than 1 million tweets.

The NATO chief discussed Trump¡¯s call for counter-terrorism efforts saying he¡¯s ready to discuss his push further but a collective defense of Europe is needed.

Trump¡¯s speech was one of inclusion, a desire for change and a new chapter for America with a message of creating a nation for all and helping world relations adding, ¡°We will have great relations all around the world.¡±